Add unused URLs cleanup task documentation (#230178)
elastic/kibana: docs/reference/configuration-reference/share-settings.md

---
navigation_title: "Sharing settings"
applies_to:
  stack: ga 9.1
  deployment:
    ess: ga
    self: ga
---

# Sharing settings in {{kib}} [share-settings-kb]

Configure sharing settings in your `kibana.yml` configuration file.
These settings allow you to customize the behavior of URL sharing in {{kib}}.

## URL expiration settings [url-expiration-settings]

URL expiration settings control the behavior of the unused URLs cleanup background task, which runs using the Task Manager plugin. This task allows you to periodically clean up saved objects of type `url` that have not been accessed in the specified period of time, controlled by the `share.url_expiration.duration` configuration option. Each saved object is a representation of a URL generated through the sharing functionality. Those settings are disabled by default. You must manually configure them in order to use this feature.

::::{warning}

> We do not recommend enabling this on lower tier Elasticsearch instances as it can lead to memory spikes and instability. The Elasticsearch instance should have at least 2 GB RAM to use the default setting. Lower tier instances shouldn’t set `share.url_expiration.url_limit` to more than `1000`.

Author: Looks great! I'll add this.

---
navigation_title: "Share settings"

> mapped_pages:
>   - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/share-settings-kb.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This doesn't seem to exist so I'd just remove it. And we don't even use that property for new pages I think.

applies_to:
  deployment:

>     ess: ga 9.1, ga 8.19

Author: I don't know if this is correct syntax. The feature is available in ECH in self-hosted in versions `8.19.0` and `>9.1.0`. 
Should this also be backported to those versions?

    self: ga 9.1, ga 8.19
---

> # Share settings in {{kib}} [share-settings-kb]

Author: Yeah this makes sense, I just though it's a requirement for this to match the plugin title. Sharing does sound better, so I'll change that.

> Configure share settings in your `kibana.yml` configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure sharing settings in your `kibana.yml` configuration file.
```
I'd say either sharing or `share` with formatting

> Share settings allow you to customize behavior related to URL sharing in Kibana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These settings allow you to customize the behavior of URL sharing in {{kib}}.
```

> ## URL Expiration settings [url-expiration-settings]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## URL expiration settings [url-expiration-settings]
```

> URL expiration settings control the behavior of unused URLs cleanup background task, which runs using Task Manager plugin. This task allows you to periodically cleanup saved objects of type `url` that have not been accessed in the specified period of time, specified by `share.url_expiration.duration` config option. Each saved object is a representation of a URL generated through the share functionality. Those settings are disabled by default. You need to manually configure them in order to use this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URL expiration settings control the behavior of the unused URLs cleanup background task, which runs using the Task Manager plugin. This task allows you to periodically clean up saved objects of type `url` that have not been accessed in the specified period of time, controlled by the `share.url_expiration.duration` configuration option. Each saved object is a representation of a URL generated through the sharing functionality. Those settings are disabled by default. You must manually configure them in order to use this feature.
```

::::{warning}

> We do not recommend enabling this on lower tier Elasticsearch instances as it can lead to memory spikes and instability. The minimum recommend Elasticsearch instance to use the default setting should have 2 GB RAM. Lower tier instances shouldn’t set `share.url_expiration.url_limit` to more than `1000`.

Reviewer: What is "lower tier"?

Author: So I'm not sure about the vocabulary we should use here. In this warning I'm trying to discourage users from enabling this feature with default settings on ECH clusters that have Elasticsarch with <2GB RAM.
Any suggestions?

> We do not recommend enabling this on lower tier Elasticsearch instances as it can lead to memory spikes and instability. The minimum recommend Elasticsearch instance to use the default setting should have 2 GB RAM. Lower tier instances shouldn’t set `share.url_expiration.url_limit` to more than `1000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do not recommend enabling this on lower tier Elasticsearch instances as it can lead to memory spikes and instability. The Elasticsearch instance should have at least 2 GB RAM to use the default setting. Lower tier instances shouldn’t set `share.url_expiration.url_limit` to more than `1000`.
```

::::

`share.url_expiration.enabled` ![logo cloud](https://doc-icons.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/logo_cloud.svg "Supported on {{ech}}")

> :   If true the URL expiration feature is enabled. Defaults to `false`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   If `true`, the URL expiration feature is enabled. Defaults to `false`
```

These settings allow you to customize the behavior of URL sharing in {{kib}}.

## URL expiration settings [url-expiration-settings]

URL expiration settings control the behavior of the unused URLs cleanup background task, which runs using the Task Manager plugin. This task allows you to periodically clean up saved objects of type `url` that have not been accessed in the specified period of time, controlled by the `share.url_expiration.duration` configuration option. Each saved object is a representation of a URL generated through the sharing functionality. Those settings are disabled by default. You must manually configure them in order to use this feature.

::::{warning}
The {{es}} instance should have at least 2 GB RAM to use the URLs cleanup background task with its default settings.

For {{es}} instances with less than 2 GB RAM, we do not recommend enabling this feature because it can lead to memory spikes and instability. If you still enable it on an instance with such limited RAM, `share.url_expiration.url_limit` should not exceed `1000`.
::::

`share.url_expiration.enabled` ![logo cloud](https://doc-icons.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/logo_cloud.svg "Supported on {{ech}}")

> :   If `true` the URL expiration feature is enabled. Defaults to `false`
> 
> `share.url_expiration.duration` ![logo cloud](https://doc-icons.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/logo_cloud.svg "Supported on {{ech}}")
> :   Controls the expiration threshold. Saved object that have not been accessed in the specified period of time will get deleted. Defaults to `1y` (1 year)
> 
> `share.url_expiration.check_interval` ![logo cloud](https://doc-icons.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/logo_cloud.svg "Supported on {{ech}}")
> :   Controls how often the task runs. Defaults to `7d` (7 days)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   If `true` the URL expiration feature is enabled. Defaults to `false`.

`share.url_expiration.duration` ![logo cloud](https://doc-icons.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/logo_cloud.svg "Supported on {{ech}}")
:   Controls the expiration threshold. Saved object that have not been accessed in the specified period of time will get deleted. Defaults to `1y` (1 year).

`share.url_expiration.check_interval` ![logo cloud](https://doc-icons.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/logo_cloud.svg "Supported on {{ech}}")
:   Controls how often the task runs. Defaults to `7d` (7 days).
```
Last one about missing punctuation then I think we're good with this PR :D
